hi cat's cradle here I wanted to make
something authentic and delicious for my
family for st. Patrick's Day so I
decided to make cold canon a lot of
dishes we serve for st. Patrick's Day
are not authentic but this one is I'm
using potatoes that I can't about a year
and a half ago and they look beautiful
i drained the potato water off for this
recipe but you can bet that if we were
in times of scarcity I would probably be
using that potato water for something
else like to make bread so I've drained
them off and I have them in a small pan
with some milk to reheat and when
they're nice and bubbly hot then I
turned the element off under the pot
here in another cast-iron skillet I am
heating up about a tablespoon of
rendered bacon drippings and adding
about 1/2 of the head of sliced cabbage
my pot is really hot I go ahead and get
all of the cabbage in there and that's
about what this puddle hold is about a
half a head of cabbage and this was a
really big head by the way and I have my
fire on really high because I want to
fry this really quickly I turn it down
just a little bit if I see any little
starch pieces on the cabbage because I
don't really want that I just want to
cook very quickly the potatoes are just
about hot and I want the cabbage pretty
well pretty well cooked for this dish
I'm gonna add some purple onion here
white is actually my choice for this
dish since we're Michigan mixing it in
mashed potatoes and sometimes purple
onions will make a dish look muddy if
you can you know if you can really see
them but they they worked out okay I
just didn't want to slice into a new
onion when I had this one that was half
used in the freezer already so I just
keep stirring it around and what I'm
looking for is for the cabbage to be
very very wilted and for the purple
onions to begin to get tender
I just keep stirring to make sure
nothing burns or scorch is on the bottom
and I'm just going to wait now for the
onions to soften up I'm going to also
add just a little bit of water to help
it steam a little faster when they're
wilted when the greens are wilted like I
want then I add some salt and some fresh
cracked pepper
this is true peasant food this is Irish
peasant food but is absolutely delicious
and it's one of those things that is
very authentic a lot of things we eat
for st. Patrick's Day are not authentic
but this is and so I'm going to add some
salt and pepper to the potatoes as well
I've changed burners brought the
potatoes to the front and push the
cabbage to the back because now I want
to mash the potatoes and so I just use
this handheld potato masher going all
around getting all the lumps out that
looks really good now I'm going to add
just a little bit of butter and
incorporate that these are things we
really love we love potatoes and we love
cabbage and onions so they're just
perfect together in my house we call
this comfort food I'm now going to ladle
the cabbage into the potatoes and we'll
start stirring them together in an Irish
household that was operating under very
frugal conditions this meal this would
have been eaten as a meal by itself if
the folks would have had a little bit
more money you can see me I'm sprinkling
in one diced green onion here into the
hot mixture if they would had a little
bit more money in each serving of the
colcannon
they would have placed a poached egg
right on top of it but in most cases it
would have been eaten just like this so
now I'm going to spoon it into my
serving dish look how rich and beautiful
that looks and it is as good as it looks
it is it's just delicious
I'm scraping out every little little
last bit and now here is one more diced
green onion sprinkled on top just for
color and this is traditional to put a
pad of button butter right in the center
this is a great side dish or a meal all
by itself I really hope you'll give it a
try it's a little unusual
we don't usually combine these two foods
together but you really need to try it
it's a great way to use the bounty from
your garden as well I hope you liked
this recipe until next time this is
cat's cradle